# Proposal Details

## Proposal Title

Auto filled. If you need to edit your proposal title, navigate to your
application summary page; click on the three dots to the right of the
application title (next to the Preview link); and select Rename from the
dropdown menu (maximum of 75 characters, including spaces)

The Joint Python Accelerators Project

## Previously applied

Did you previously apply for funding for this or a related proposal under the
EOSS program? If so, please add the application number, e.g. EOSS-0000005345

## Proposal Purpose

One sentence (maximum of 255 characters including spaces)

Developers of scikit-image and different Python accelerators (Transonic,
Cython, Pythran, Numba) launch a collaboration based on compatibility,
interoperability and gentle competition, to get high performance with clean and
modern Python code.

## Amount Requested

Enter total budget amount requested in USD, including indirect costs; this
number should be between $50k and $250k total costs and match total described
in the Budget Description

$250k

## Abstract/Proposal Summary

A short summary of the application ​(maximum of 250 words)

## Work Plan

A description of the proposed work the applicants are requesting funding for,
including resources the applicants will provide that are not part of the
requested funding. For software development related work (e.g., engineering,
product design, user research), specify how the work fits into the existing
software project roadmap. For community outreach related activities (e.g.,
sprints, training), specify how these activities will be organized, the target
audience, and expected outcomes (maximum of 750 words)

## Milestones and Deliverables

List expected milestones and deliverables, and their expected timeline. Be
specific and include (where possible) any goals for metrics the software
project(s) are expected to reach upon completion of the grant (maximum of 500
words)

## Existing Support

List current and recent financial support for the software project(s),
including duration, amount in USD, and source of funding ​(maximum of 250
words)

## Landscape Analysis

Briefly describe the other software tools (either proprietary or open source)
that the audience for this proposal is primarily using. How do the software
projects in this proposal compare to these other tools in terms of size of user
base, usage, and maturity? ​(maximum of 250 words)

## Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion (DEI) Statement

Advancing DEI is a core value for CZI, and we are requesting information on
your efforts in this area. Describe any efforts the software project(s) named
in this proposal have undertaken to increase diversity, equity, and inclusion
with respect to their contributors and audience. Please see examples from
successful first cycle applications ​(maximum of 250 words)
